README.md, before:

# GameSquawk - Gaming Community Platform

## 📱 Overview
GameSquawk is a dynamic web platform designed for gamers to connect, share experiences, discuss games, and build a thriving gaming community. The application allows users to create posts about their favorite games, like and comment on others' content, and engage in gaming discussions.

## ✨ Features
- **User Authentication**: Secure signup and login system
- **Post Creation**: Share gaming experiences with markdown support
- **Categories**: Organize posts by game categories
- **Interaction**: Like, dislike, and comment on posts
- **Real-time Updates**: Instant notifications using Socket.io
- **Dark/Light Mode**: Customizable interface theme
- **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices
- **HTTPS Support**: Secure connection with SSL/TLS
- **Domain Configuration**: Custom domain support

## 🔧 Technology Stack
### Frontend
- React.js
- CSS for styling
- Socket.io client for real-time features
- Markdown rendering for rich content
- Environment variables for dynamic configuration

### Backend
- Node.js with Express
- MySQL database with Sequelize ORM
- Socket.io for real-time communication
- JWT for authentication
- Nginx as reverse proxy
- Let's Encrypt for SSL certificates

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v14 or later)
- MySQL database
- npm or yarn package manager
- (Optional) Nginx for production deployment
- (Optional) Domain name for production deployment

### Installation

#### Setting up the Backend
1. Navigate to the backend directory:
   ```
   cd GameSquawk/backend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```
   npm install
   ```

3. Create a `.env` file with the following variables:
   ```
   PORT=3001
   DB_HOST=localhost
   DB_USER=your_database_username
   DB_PASSWORD=your_database_password
   DB_NAME=database_db
   JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret
   ```

4. Start the server:
   ```
   node app.js
   ```

#### Setting up the Frontend
1. Navigate to the frontend directory:
   ```
   cd GameSquawk/frontend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```
   npm install
   ```

3. Create a `.env` file with:
   ```
   # For local development
   REACT_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:3001
   
   # For production with domain (uncomment when deploying)
   # REACT_APP_API_URL=https://yourdomain.com
   ```

4. Start the development server:
   ```
   npm start
   ```

5. Open your browser and visit:
   ```
   http://localhost:3000
   ```

### Production Deployment

#### Domain Configuration
1. Update your domain's DNS settings to point to your server IP
2. Configure Nginx:
   ```
   server {
       server_name yourdomain.com;
       
       location / {
           proxy_pass http://localhost:3000;
           proxy_http_version 1.1;
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
           proxy_set_header Host $host;
           proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
       }
       
       location /api {
           proxy_pass http://localhost:3001;
           proxy_http_version 1.1;
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
           proxy_set_header Host $host;
           proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
       }
       
       location /socket.io {
           proxy_pass http://localhost:3001;
           proxy_http_version 1.1;
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
           proxy_set_header Host $host;
           proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
       }
   }
   ```

#### SSL Configuration
1. Install Certbot and the Nginx plugin:
   ```
   apt update && apt install -y certbot python3-certbot-nginx
   ```

2. Obtain and configure SSL certificate:
   ```
   certbot --nginx -d yourdomain.com
   ```

3. Update frontend environment:
   ```
   # frontend/.env
   REACT_APP_API_URL=https://yourdomain.com
   ```

4. Rebuild the frontend:
   ```
   cd frontend && npm run build
   ```

## 📖 How to Use
1. **Register/Login**: Create an account or log in to access features
2. **Create Posts**: Share your gaming experiences using the post form
3. **Interact**: Like posts and leave comments to engage with others
4. **Customize**: Switch between dark and light mode for comfortable viewing

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### Dependency Compatibility Issues
If you encounter errors related to dependencies when installing or running the application (especially with React 19), use the following commands:

For react-mde (markdown editor):
```
npm install react-mde --legacy-peer-deps
```

For socket.io-client (real-time communication):
```
npm install socket.io-client --legacy-peer-deps
```

These issues occur because some packages have peer dependencies on older React versions, but the project uses React 19. The `--legacy-peer-deps` flag allows npm to ignore peer dependency conflicts.

### SSL/HTTPS Issues
If you encounter mixed content warnings:
1. Ensure your `.env` file has `REACT_APP_API_URL` set to use `https://` protocol
2. Rebuild the frontend application after making changes
3. Check browser console for specific error messages

## 📱 Project Structure
```
GameSquawk/
├── backend/          # Server-side code
│   ├── config/       # Database configuration
│   ├── controllers/  # Request handlers
│   ├── middleware/   # Auth middleware
│   ├── models/       # Database models
│   └── routes/       # API endpoints
│
└── frontend/         # Client-side code
    ├── public/       # Static files
    └── src/          # React components
        └── components/ # UI components
```

## 🤝 Contributing
Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome! Feel free to check the issues page.

## 📄 License
All rights reserved. This project is proprietary software. Unauthorized copying, modification, distribution, or use of this software, via any medium, is strictly prohibited without express permission from the author.

Commit message:

Add user profile and avatar features: Public profile viewing, avatar uploads and display, profile linking, and API routes for retrieving user data

README.md, after:

# GameSquawk - Gaming Community Platform

## 📱 Overview
GameSquawk is a dynamic web platform designed for gamers to connect, share experiences, discuss games, and build a thriving gaming community. The application allows users to create posts about their favorite games, like and comment on others' content, and engage in gaming discussions.

## ✨ Features
- **User Authentication**: Secure signup and login system
- **Post Creation**: Share gaming experiences with markdown support
- **Categories**: Organize posts by game categories
- **Interaction**: Like, dislike, and comment on posts
- **Real-time Updates**: Instant notifications using Socket.io
- **Dark/Light Mode**: Customizable interface theme
- **User Profiles**: View public profiles of other users
- **Avatar Support**: Upload and display profile pictures
- **Responsive Design**: Works on desktop and mobile devices
- **HTTPS Support**: Secure connection with SSL/TLS
- **Domain Configuration**: Custom domain support

## 🔧 Technology Stack
### Frontend
- React.js
- CSS for styling
- Socket.io client for real-time features
- Markdown rendering for rich content
- Environment variables for dynamic configuration

### Backend
- Node.js with Express
- MySQL database with Sequelize ORM
- Socket.io for real-time communication
- JWT for authentication
- Nginx as reverse proxy
- Let's Encrypt for SSL certificates

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (v14 or later)
- MySQL database
- npm or yarn package manager
- (Optional) Nginx for production deployment
- (Optional) Domain name for production deployment

### Installation

#### Setting up the Backend
1. Navigate to the backend directory:
   ```
   cd GameSquawk/backend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```
   npm install
   ```

3. Create a `.env` file with the following variables:
   ```
   PORT=3001
   DB_HOST=localhost
   DB_USER=your_database_username
   DB_PASSWORD=your_database_password
   DB_NAME=database_db
   JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret
   ```

4. Start the server:
   ```
   node app.js
   ```

#### Setting up the Frontend
1. Navigate to the frontend directory:
   ```
   cd GameSquawk/frontend
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```
   npm install
   ```

3. Create a `.env` file with:
   ```
   # For local development
   REACT_APP_API_URL=http://localhost:3001
   
   # For production with domain (uncomment when deploying)
   # REACT_APP_API_URL=https://yourdomain.com
   ```

4. Start the development server:
   ```
   npm start
   ```

5. Open your browser and visit:
   ```
   http://localhost:3000
   ```

### Production Deployment

#### Domain Configuration
1. Update your domain's DNS settings to point to your server IP
2. Configure Nginx:
   ```
   server {
       server_name yourdomain.com;
       
       location / {
           proxy_pass http://localhost:3000;
           proxy_http_version 1.1;
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
           proxy_set_header Host $host;
           proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
       }
       
       location /api {
           proxy_pass http://localhost:3001;
           proxy_http_version 1.1;
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
           proxy_set_header Host $host;
           proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
       }
       
       location /socket.io {
           proxy_pass http://localhost:3001;
           proxy_http_version 1.1;
           proxy_set_header Upgrade $http_upgrade;
           proxy_set_header Connection 'upgrade';
           proxy_set_header Host $host;
           proxy_cache_bypass $http_upgrade;
       }
   }
   ```

#### SSL Configuration
1. Install Certbot and the Nginx plugin:
   ```
   apt update && apt install -y certbot python3-certbot-nginx
   ```

2. Obtain and configure SSL certificate:
   ```
   certbot --nginx -d yourdomain.com
   ```

3. Update frontend environment:
   ```
   # frontend/.env
   REACT_APP_API_URL=https://yourdomain.com
   ```

4. Rebuild the frontend:
   ```
   cd frontend && npm run build
   ```

## 📖 How to Use
1. **Register/Login**: Create an account or log in to access features
2. **Create Posts**: Share your gaming experiences using the post form
3. **Interact**: Like posts and leave comments to engage with others
4. **View Profiles**: Click on a username or avatar to view that user's profile
5. **Customize Profile**: Upload an avatar and update your profile information
6. **Customize**: Switch between dark and light mode for comfortable viewing

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### Dependency Compatibility Issues
If you encounter errors related to dependencies when installing or running the application (especially with React 19), use the following commands:

For react-mde (markdown editor):
```
npm install react-mde --legacy-peer-deps
```

For socket.io-client (real-time communication):
```
npm install socket.io-client --legacy-peer-deps
```

These issues occur because some packages have peer dependencies on older React versions, but the project uses React 19. The `--legacy-peer-deps` flag allows npm to ignore peer dependency conflicts.

### SSL/HTTPS Issues
If you encounter mixed content warnings:
1. Ensure your `.env` file has `REACT_APP_API_URL` set to use `https://` protocol
2. Rebuild the frontend application after making changes
3. Check browser console for specific error messages

## 📱 Project Structure
```
GameSquawk/
├── backend/          # Server-side code
│   ├── config/       # Database configuration
│   ├── controllers/  # Request handlers
│   ├── middleware/   # Auth middleware
│   ├── models/       # Database models
│   └── routes/       # API endpoints
│
└── frontend/         # Client-side code
    ├── public/       # Static files
    └── src/          # React components
        └── components/ # UI components
```

## 🤝 Contributing
Contributions, issues, and feature requests are welcome! Feel free to check the issues page.

## 📄 License
All rights reserved. This project is proprietary software. Unauthorized copying, modification, distribution, or use of this software, via any medium, is strictly prohibited without express permission from the author.
